layout: post
title: "A-brief-moment-in-blockchain-aesthetics"
category: Notes
lede: "Particles.js is lightweight, dependency-free, and responsive - just like your currency." 
author: Victoria Campbell
published: true
image: "https://computerlab.io/images/pigeon-sounds-banner.png"





#VIRTUAL SURPLUS



Lightweight, dependency-free, responsive. Never before has financial capitalism so seamlessly resembled a software model- nor has open-source software been so deterministically user-friendly. 

Digital finance has peaked, but perhaps we've never been disillusioned by it. There's a common misconception among cryptoevangelists that digital currencies have somehow triggered a revolution in financial capitalism. But the technological shift isn't digital, it's virtual. The digital translates, it compresses. The virtual represents, it mirrors. 


#A CRYPTOAPOSTOLIC WET DREAM FOR VIRTUAL REVOLUTION

The particles.js plug-in creates particle environments that interface with browsers. As seen on venture-based blockchain platforms, the software functions as both brand identity and interface metaphor. In "The Interface Effect," Alexander Galloway discusses the complex relationship between technology and the visual systems that mediate it. "The history of the pixel is instructive in this capacity: at its invention in the middle twentieth century the electronic pixel was essentially the same thing as the binary bit, one existing in the modality of visible light and the other existing in the modality of mathematical value."

What's notable about particles.js isn't the mechanics of the plugin itself, but how the software operates as a visual allegory for the relativity of value. Particles attends to a palatable platform for the exchange of digital securities; a means by which the blockchain can be imagined as having risen from the crypt of the darknet into the cloud of the open-source. The particles easily dissolve into the slick copy of a FinTech landing page, a visual trope that's so ubiquitous it's virtually invisible. The gestalt effect is one of privacy and transparency, decentralization and invulnerability, accumulation and exchange. But the disillusionment lies in the allegory, not the aesthetic.  


#FINTECH IS A TIMEZONE




a constellation of affects that should be, by now, as familiar 


, initally developed 
the visual implementation of which enjoyed a brief moment as the face of FinTech.


particles.js is a Javascript library for the creation of virtual fragments that interact with themselves or with a user, 
with seemingly endless options for configuration.


Particles.js is both 
the majority of which have gone under. But it's ubiquity was such that 
one barely noticed that cryptocurrency, 






 It's appearance on platforms such as Debitum Network, INS.world etc etc [add more examples, 
note on obsolecence of trend] But what was with the ubiquity of particles.js on emergent blockchain projects? Since the
development of Ethereum, some worried that too many alt coin models could dilute the market, and compromise the potential of de-centralized 
economic models at large.[[link: http://nakamotoinstitute.org/mempool/the-coming-demise-of-altcoins/]] 
A kind of bit-Babylon, after the tower of financial capital has collapsed. On a surface level, it answers the question everybody seems to be asking: What makes your altcoin so special? 
Nothing, and that’s precisely why it’s sustainable. Any economic system that lacks a material economic referent - such as gold - must 
rely on standardization, and in virtual finance, that standard is a system of protocols.


Virtualization is a modality of representation, whereas the digital is a modality of translation. 




In the beginning there will have been time. But first, a word about space: the vertical axis of signification. 

How do we imagine 
this means something, meaning--what kinds of representations do we ascribe to value? To time? How do we save time? Save it from what? From space? These 
questions are the stakes for what we understand as capital; space and time being the dual axis of its encryption. 

In talk about the economy, there's talk about crisis, there's talk about collapse. In one imagination, we have the decline of Empire; that is, of Imperialism, which is 
the disruption of the centers that hold the economic order in place, around which the periphery of the developing world gravitates. 
The other idea of collapse is the collapse of spacetime. Because the term "black hole" is also an economic term, describing a place where people or things, 
especially money, disappear without a trace. What's at stake in this second idea of collapse is the infinite, that is, the obsolescence of the very system of coordinates 
through which value itself can be measured. 





Virtual currencies, like any other technology, 
mirror the model of the hype-cycle. Hype cycles assign emergent technologies the historical development of a landscape: peaks, troughs, slopes, and plateaus. 
These are natural metaphors for space and time. Mapped on an axis this way, a singular technology is never one instance of a tool, but a continuous 
process of development. In other words, an economy. 


Capital is encryption. Value has always been mined.

Cryptograpy is a spatial determination. So is a bank. The financial crisis of the Late 2000's can be decoded 
as an ensemble of attempts to mine the banks, only to find that time had virtually been extracted in the form of debt, 
i.e., future time. 
Finance has been digitized for a long time, with the technology of the stock ticker being a 
sort of proto-digital technology. Mine, mining: does the value of gold emerge from storage or extraction?


Venturecrypts know nothing of work or meaning.

```

 The script enjoyed a brief moment as the face of capital. A *Lightweight* - *dependency-free* - *responsive* solution to all of your particle needs. 


Digital finance has peaked, but perhaps we've never been disillusioned by it. 
Finance has been digitized for a long time, with the technology of the stock ticker being a 
sort of proto-digital technology. Mine, mining: does the value of gold emerge from storage or extraction?  This comes to a peak in the 1970's, with financial deregulation. In 1972, with the breaking of the 
Bretton-Woods agreements, Richard Nixon stated that the dollar would essentially have no reference to any economic referent, 
but that value would henceforth be determined by an act of language. It was the beginning of the financialization of the economy,
as well as the credit system - both of which depended on the innovation of digital technology. The virtualization of currency is
an extension of this model, and can be distinguished not only by the sophistication and development of cryptography, but by 
the aesthetic paradigms - the interface metaphors - that determine the logic of its exchange. 
"The history of the pixel is instructive in this capacity: at its inve ntion
in the middle twentieth century the electro nic pixel was
esse ntially the same thing as the binary bit, one existing in the
modality of visible light and the other existing in the modality
of mathematical value . Currency systems operate within both realms. Money transfers value, it also represents it." 




A cryptographic reading of venture currency start-ups 







-





This all seems to be techwashed in the vernacular of a social media uprising- *transparency*, *accountability,* *horizontality* . 


Instead, they coincide with the hype-spirals.
Cyberhype - that flattens signs and resources onto nonsignifying
triggers, diagrams, and assembly jargons.



machine for the apparatus, or the singularity for the model.

valuable data - communication data, and biological data. 


The mine 



. It's the voice of 
 





TEDxvangelism 






 Cryptoimperialism 
 
 Virtually, the crypt is a tomb just as the factory is a prison, 
 
 techlash. 
 The crypt is a tomb just as the factory is a prison, 
 \

 
 vetting people 
 formative aesthetics 
 user adjusts the parameters - you're given the authority to direct transactions. But control is embedded in the 
 transaction itself. Decentralization decenters power, 



library of virtual particles
-- just like your virtual currency.



The political currency driving blockchain projects eerily resembles
the vernacular of post-internet social movements, with 

blockchain seems to have borrowed 
its vernacular from 

 
 One might imagine the tool as having implications for data visualization or experimental UI/UXD, 
but it's much more elementary than that- at least in its present usage. After all, there's nothing more 
elementary than a bunch of particles. The background points to a tendency to brand FinTech projects as having the dynamic of a 
social network. It re-imagines virtual capital as a system of nodes and connective branches, always in movement, with the ability
to shift forms and reconfigure-- but without the capacity to inflate or burst. 
In other words, the blockchain is a cloud, not a bubble. 

PLATFORM CURRENCY



center
Nothing propagates itself through the Crypt without realizing
the operational identity of culture and machinery,
effectively dismantling the organic body into numerizing
particles which swarm in dislocated swirls. 
[[GIF]]




CRYPTOCAPITALISM IS THE NEW SCHIZOPHRENIA

>> Crypt-entities
are both hyper-vortical singularities and units of Digital
Hyperstition - or brands of the outside - real components
of numerical fictions that make themselves real,
provicl i n g tht' pr:'l C'tir<11 m <1 ttpr of "orcer)', spirogenesis,
or productive involvement that function consistently
with the flatline.




NEUROCAPITAL




metaformalism
overcoded virtual surplus 
template criteria 
totally neuronic

prevailing signaletics and information-science are both insufficiently abstract and over-theoretical- 
They cannot see the 







